# food-access-capstone

Executive Summary
Food insecurity, put simply by Feeding America, is “When people don't have enough to eat … [or] know where their next meal will come from.” Dealing with hunger can affect many aspects of a person’s wellbeing, beyond simply physical health. This project aims to identify some of the key issues communities with higher rates of food insecurity experience. This project will utilize USA Census data, Tennessee-specific data from the USDA examining food insecurity, and data from the State of Tennessee that looks at spending for children’s social programs by county and year. One assumption this project can safely work from is that communities experiencing high rates of food insecurity also have relatively low median incomes. One challenge to executing this project well may be that the USDA dataset uses census tracts while the State of Tennessee data only gets as granular as counties. 

Motivation
I chose this project because I’m interested in exploring systemic issues around food access and social service spending in Tennessee. Nearly a decade ago, I worked as a community engagement fellow at an organization that provided free pop-up food markets at schools and community centers in underserved wards in Washington, DC. Through that experience, volunteering, and my later work writing educational materials for TennCare members, I now better understand the negative health outcomes connected to food insecurity and how food security disproportionately affects vulnerable and underserved populations. 

Data Questions
What characteristics are most common among communities with low access to grocery stores in the US? Are housing units further from grocery stores more likely to be enrolled in SNAP? Does this differ between urban and rural census tracts, or do other factors like vehicle ownership, race, ethnicity or age play a role? Bringing in a dataset for Tennessee county children’s services, what federal/state programs have the highest enrollment in areas with low access to grocery stores and high rates of SNAP enrollment? (Examples of programs included in the data include education, immunization, custody & truancy, child care benefits and women’s health.) 

Minimum Viable Product (MVP)
The analysis in this MVP will be presented through a well-designed slide deck. It should tell a simple and compelling story first and foremost. In preparing the presentation, I intend to utilize Python and Power BI. The audience will be middle class Tennessee residents hoping to better understand, empathize with and advocate for the needs of nearby underserved communities.
